Raspberry Pi/README.md, before:

# Raspberry Pi

For this demo setup we've choosen to use a Raspberry Pi as a central control unit.

The Raspberry Pi is a version 3 device. This is great because it allows us to run the software in containers.

## Setting up the Raspberry Pi

First download and install the latest version of Hasbian on a SD card.  Hasbian is a special version of Raspbian that includes Home Assistent.
Install the 32 bit version which is the recommended version at this time.

### Getting the default files from Github

Development is done with version control from Github. Clone the project in the home folder of the user 'pi'.

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/mverleun/PWN-Demo.git
```

### Install PlatformIO

PlatformIO is used to build the firmware. Open a terminal session and type the following commands:

```
sudo python -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformio/platformio/develop/scripts/get-platformio.py)"
```

### Install esphome.io

[Esphome.io](https://esphome.io/) is the new name of firmware that's easy to use. It requires configuration but programming skills are not needed.
Installing is done according to the information on the [Getting started](https://esphome.io/guides/getting_started_command_line.html) page, which says to enter the following command:

``` bash
sudo pip install esphomeyaml
```

### Install Mosquitto

Let's install the version of Mosquitto that's bundled with Raspbian

``` bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install mosquitto
```

This will automatically start the MQTT broker.

Next step is to add the mqtt settings to the configuration of Home Assistent. Because we don't have the propper permission use `sudo nano /home/homeassistant/.homeassistant/configuration.yaml` to open the file in an editor.

Add the following configuration snippet between the `tts:` and `cloud:` section:

```
# MQTT Config
mqtt:
  broker: 127.0.0.1
  port: 1883
  client_id: homeassistent
  discovery: true
  discovery_prefix: homeassistant
```
These settings will instruct Home Assistent to use the MQTT broker on the local system. Esphome firmware can use the topic `homeassistant/#` to announce devices which will then be auto-discovered.

Commit message:

Upgraded to esphome.io
Esphome yaml has evolved to esphome.io

Raspberry Pi/README.md, after:

# Raspberry Pi

For this demo setup we've choosen to use a Raspberry Pi as a central control unit.

The Raspberry Pi is a version 3 device. This is great because it allows us to run the software in containers.

## Setting up the Raspberry Pi

First download and install the latest version of Hasbian on a SD card.  Hassbian is a special version of Raspbian that includes Home Assistent.
Install the 32 bit version which is the recommended version at this time. Detailed instructions can be found [here](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/installation/hassbian/).

### Getting the default files from Github

Development is done with version control from Github. Clone the project in the home folder of the user 'pi'.

```
cd
git clone https://github.com/mverleun/PWN-Demo.git
```

### Install PlatformIO

PlatformIO is used to build the firmware. Open a terminal session and type the following commands:

```
sudo python -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformio/platformio/develop/scripts/get-platformio.py)"
```

### Install esphome.io

[Esphome.io](https://esphome.io/) is the new name of firmware that's easy to use. It requires configuration but programming skills are not needed.
Installing is done according to the information on the [Getting started](https://esphome.io/guides/getting_started_command_line.html) page, which says to enter the following command:

``` bash
sudo pip install esphome
```

### Install Mosquitto

Let's install the version of Mosquitto that's bundled with Raspbian

``` bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install mosquitto
```

This will automatically start the MQTT broker.

Next step is to add the mqtt settings to the configuration of Home Assistent. Because we don't have the propper permission use `sudo nano /home/homeassistant/.homeassistant/configuration.yaml` to open the file in an editor.

Add the following configuration snippet between the `tts:` and `cloud:` section:

```
# MQTT Config
mqtt:
  broker: 127.0.0.1
  port: 1883
#  client_id: homeassistent
#  discovery: true
#  discovery_prefix: homeassistant
```
These settings will instruct Home Assistent to use the MQTT broker on the local system. Esphome firmware can use the topic `homeassistant/#` to announce devices which will then be auto-discovered.

When mannually configuring devices we'll use style 2 of the config mentioned [here](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/configuration/devices/)

In the initial setup there are three controllers that control the pump and/or valve. They also measure the water level and are called controller_1, controller_3 and controller_5.

### Install desktop on hassbian machine

```sudo apt-get install raspberrypi-ui-mods``` is the command that will install the desktop. When the installation is done run ```sudo raspi-config``` and configure the system to automatically login in the graphical desktop.
Select the following options: `3`, `B1` and `B4`.
Also enable VNC with options: `5` and `P3`

When done install additional software with: ```sudo apt install raspberrypi-ui-mods chromium-browser```

Disable the automatic screen blanking by adding the following lines to the `[SeatDefaults]` section in the file `/etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf`.

```
# don't sleep the screen
xserver-command=X -s 0 dpms
```
